---
tags: Project_Apocrypha
---
```dataview  
TABLE WITHOUT ID file.mtime AS "Last Modified"  
WHERE file.path = this.file.path  
```
# META
## What does this section need?
- Fleshing out of Recoil, Recoil Comp.
- Reload rules for speed, similar stuff (based on BULK?)
- Malfunction rules? Is that fun? Maybe? Crit fails aren’t really a thing in this system yet

## Design intent of melee vs ranged
- Melee weapons need Coordination + Skill rolls to hit
- Coordination is also the value for Avoidance Rating (the passive dodge system) so that means melee is slightly less MAD
- Ranged weapons always *roll for damage* in addition to rolling to hit. This should be done at the same time, a la DND or Pathfinder in VTT/R20, to avoid wasting time.
	- Ranged weapons do not add “net successes” to damage. Instead, player should either try to land more shots via narrow burst, or add damage by targeting with called shots. 
	- Extra net successes in ranged combat are wasted.
	- Ranged gets to feel a little more gambly, which is the trade-off for not being in melee ranged to get crumped.
- Melee weapons act more like SR damage, where it’s flat + net successes.

# Ranged Weapons

| Name  | Force | RNG | FM    | ROF | CAP | BLK | ERG | RCL    | CAL   | SPEC  |
| ----- | ----- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ | ----- | ----- |
| M4A1  | 10D   | 200 | S/F   | F   | 30  | -4  | -2  | 3(D6)  | 556   | AP -3 |
| AK74  | 10D   | 250 | S/F   | M   | 30  | -4* | -2  | 3(D6)  | 545   | AP -3 |
| 870   | 14D   | 10  | S     | S   | 1   | -6  | -2  | 8(D10) | 12GA  |       |
| G17   | 4D    | 7   | S     | S   | 17  | -2  | -3  | 5(D6)  | 9x19  |       |
| MP7   | 4D    | 100 | S/B/F | F   | 30  | -3  | -2  | 3(D6)  | 4.35K | AP -3 |
| MP5   | 5D    | 50  | S/B/F | M   | 30  | -3  | -2  | 2(D6)  | 9x19  |       |
| M240B | 12D   | 300 | F     | N   | 100 | -10 | -3  | 6(D8)  | 762N  |       | 
|       |       |     |       |     |     |     |     |        |       |       |

## Force
A measure of the impact that a fired round will have on the target. All Ranged weapons fire ammunition, and depending on the effects of this ammunition, convert the value to various effects. 

Some ammunition types may “break” these rules, by converting 1 die to more than one, but these typically have additional tradeoffs.

Abstracting, Force is a measure of both mass and speed. 

Ex:
- 5.56 Fragmenting (M193) uses the Damage Type *Fragmenting*. All physical damage reduction is twice as effective against these rounds. It converts no Force to additional AP.
- 5.56 AP (M855) converts ⅓ (rounding down) of Force to AP. 
- 5.56 High-Tech AP (M855A1) converts 1/2  of POW to damage, and converts the remaining POW to AP at a rate of x3 per ERG. 10 POW becomes 5 Damage, AP 15.
- Incendiary
- Armor-Piercing Incendiary

## FM/ROF
The mechanical ability of a weapon to fire rapidly in short succession. In practice, this allows players to allocate how many shots that their weapon is capable of firing in a turn, when the trigger is either held down or fired as quickly as possible.

### Fire Modes

#### Single Fire
This weapon fires one time for each pull of the trigger. These weapons cannot use the “burst” mechanics, but have their own set of maneuvers which function similarly. 

Some of these weapons have a Capacity of 1 or 2, meaning they must be reloaded often, seriously limited their rate of fire.

#### Semi Automatic
Semi-automatic weapons may be fired at their Rapid Fire speed, but the user must change a number of dice in their attack pool to *d6 complication* dice to do so, representing the increased difficulty.


#### Burst and Fully Automatic
These two firemodes have *Speeds* attached to them, indicating how quickly a weapon fires in the mode. These speeds play in to some of the actions that characters may take.

Characters cannot choose to fire part of a burst, or part of a Rapid Fire attack. Weapons which only have Full Auto but not Burst may fire as if they hard Burst, but the shooter must convert a number of dice in their pool equal to 1/2 of the weapon’s Recoil as *d6 complication* dice as the character must take some of their focus off the target to control their fire.

#### Speeds
| fire speed | Burst Rounds Fired | Full Auto |
| ---------- | ------------------ | ---------- |
| Semi       | 2                  | 3          |
| slow       | 3                  | 7          |
| normal     | 5                  | 12         |
| fast       | 6                  | 15         |
| very fast  | 8                  | 20         |
| hyper      | 12                 | 30         |

### Burst
This weapon fires a burst (several rounds) in the time it takes to pull the trigger once. The weapon is always ensured to fire this number of rounds, for the purposes of to-hit and recoil compensation.

### Fully Automatic
Whenever a player makes a Fully Automatic attack, they roll the number of dice listed to determine the number of shots fired. Characters may choose to continue holding down the trigger to continue firing when their turn ends. They may make an additional attack without expending Initiative Points on Ergonomics if doing so at the start of the next turn. They must maintain targeting in the same 45 degree field in front of them.

## Capacity
The amount of ammunition a weapon carries in a magazine or internal mechanism that it may fire before needing reloading.

## Weapons and Action Points
Weapons have two attributes which influence the speed at which they can be used. 

### Ergonomics
Ease of aiming, firing the weapon. (Pulling the trigger/directing attacks). Ergonomics is 1/2 of the action economy equation, and is a measure of how quickly and effectively a weapon can be fired once aimed, or fired from the hip.

### Bulk - lower is better
Ease of bringing the weapon up to bear, and getting it roughly aligned with a target. This also guides penalties for using the weapon at close quarters.

## Recoil
The amount of recoil energy this weapon generates when fired. 
### DEV NOTES
- [ ] Recoil system needs some definition #pa_tbd 
- Weapons which do more damage/fire bigger boolet generate more recoil.
- Weapon upgrades  

# Range Table

| Range       | Penalty  | Desc         |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------ |
| 0m          | -3x BULK | Hand to Hand |
| 1-3m        | -1x BULK | Melee        |
| 3-RNG       | 0        | Point Blank  |
| RNG-RNGx2   | +2 Diff  | Medium       |
| RNGx2-RNGx3 | +4 Diff  | Long         |
| x3-x4       | +8 Diff  | Extreme      |
| Each adt’l  | x2 Diff  | Absurd       | 


# Melee Weapons

| Name | Lethality | Energy | Reach | Maneuverability | 
| ---- | --------- | ------ | ----- | --------------- |


## Weapon Techniques (Burst/FA for weapons)


# Armor and Protection

| Name         | Impact Rating | Penetration Rating | Bulk | Coverage | Tag              |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------------ | ---- | -------- | ---------------- |
| NIJ IV Plate | 5             | 40                 | -4   | N/A      | Plate, Ablative  |
| Crye JPC     | 10            | 0                  | -1   | TORSO    | Plate Pocket (2) |
| NIJ 2A Vest  | 5             | 10                 | -2   | TORSO    |                  |
| NIJ 3A Vest  | 7             | 15                 | -3   | TORSO    |                  |
|              |               |                    |      |          |                  |
