---
tags: Project_Apocrypha
---
```dataview  
TABLE WITHOUT ID file.mtime AS "Last Modified"  
WHERE file.path = this.file.path  
```
# How Combat Works
## Apocrypha’s Combat Style
- Quick
- Violent
- Over.
The idea is to be impactful, engaging, and thrilling, while not being overly punishing or outright unfair.
## The Nuts and Bolts
- [ ] Universal combat flow description needs a lot of work #pa_tbd 
### Initiative and Action Economy
#### Combat and Tracked-Time
Combat begins whenever one character takes an action with hostile intent towards another who is aware enough to recognize this. All characters in the scene who wish to participate must then go through the normal process of determining Action Potential order, and act accordingly.
> [!INFO]- Caveat - Ambushes
> This means that ambushes are not technically considered *combat*. Ambushes tend to be extremely dangerous for the recipient, and are detailed later on.
#### Action Economy
Now that combat has started, there are two main components which govern who goes when: [[201.03 Skills#OODA|OODA]], and [[201.03 Skills#Action Potential|Action Potential]].

[[201.03 Skills#Action Potential|Action Potential]] is the “currency” of combat - the more you have, the more things you can do in a turn. It is *very* powerful, so players and GMs should always keep AP in mind. AP is spent by taking actions, all of which have a cost. When all characters in a combat have 0 remaining AP, the turn ends. (More on this later)

[[201.03 Skills#OODA|OODA]] is more subtle. It breaks ties when two characters have the same AP, but it also determines how many actions a character can take before before the initiative order is evaluated. When a character has taken their OODA in actions, they are said to have finished their “Pass.”
> [!Example]- Example of AP/OODA interaction
> Gasket starts with 12 AP and has an OODA of 8. Trident starts with 16 AP and has an OODA of 10.
> 
> Trident goes first. He may take up to his OODA (10) of actions before the turn-order is re-evaluated. Trident takes actions from 16 AP → 5 AP. 
> 
> Gasket may now take actions, starting at AP 12. He may take up to his OODA (8) of actions before any other characters take actions. Gasket takes actions from 12 AP → 3 AP. Now that his OODA has been spent, the turn order is checked.
> 
> Trident is at AP 5, and Gasket at AP 2. Trident has the highest remaining AP, thus he takes the initiative. He can take up to 10 AP of actions before the turn order is re-evaluated, but he only has 5 remaining. He takes actions from 5 AP → 0 AP. Now that he is out of AP, the turn order is checked.
> 
> Gasket is now the character with the highest remaining AP. He may take his last 2 AP of actions.
### Now it’s a Fight
Now that we have determined who goes when, all that’s left is to resolve the combat. 

Characters generally wish to inflict Damage to either kill or incapacitate their enemies. They do this by attacking other characters using melee, ranged, or ability attacks. All characters are going to want to *do damage* but not *take damage* All pretty elementary stuff.

All of those methods of dealing or avoiding damage involve actions or reactions, and thus fit in to the action economy order a little differently. There are detailed action descriptions a bit further along.

To do any of those fun shooty, stabby, or spellcasty things, a character must be *engaged* with another character.
### Engagements
Engagements may be thought of as the “base unit of combat” in Apocrypha. A single combat round may have multiple individual engagements made up between two or more characters. An engagement is said to continue until either all parties so engaged are incapacitated, all parties have left the engagement range, or both sides agree to terminate the engagement and cease hostile actions.

Combat and Combat-tracked time may be ongoing *with no active engagements* if the involved groups are moving to contact with each other, retreating, repositioning, or otherwise still attempting to *win* the combat.

Being **Engaged** either in melee, or in ranged combat allows players certain special reactions.
#### All Engagements
In every engagement, there is a party who “triggers” the engagement when they take the first action that means they fit the conditions of Engagement. This party is generally going to take an action of some sort, like an attack, a feint, or a defensive action, depending on circumstances.

In engagements, the flow of actions is generally something like this:
1. Attackers make a targeting roll, either against the defender’s passive Avoidance Rating or their own test, if they opted to take a defensive reaction. 
2. If the attacker hits, they roll incoming damage and apply any ability effects.
3. The defender then calculates received damage, taking in to account Damage Resistance, and any other abilities or influencing factors.

> [!INFO]- Multiple Attacks
> Sometimes, if an attacker may have the AP to deliver multiple attacks in a single pass. To avoid going through the above steps multiple times, there are special actions for Multiple Attacks. For melee attacks, these are the [[#Flurry]] action, and for Ranged attacks, the [[#Autofire and bursts]] or other similar actions for more primitive (or advanced!) weapons. They modify this basic sequence.
> 
> Characters *may* opt to deliver 2 attacks to more than one character in a turn. These are generally handled in a similar manner, to keep the number of rolls as low as possible. More on this later in the [[#Actions]] section.
> 
> **Designer Note**: The design intent is to minimize rolls while maintaining options. Special Multiple Attack actions should **always** be more efficient than simply making a second regular attack.

#### Melee Engagements
When referring to melee combat, characters are considered to be **Engaged** with each other as soon as one of them moves in to a space which any hostile character could strike with a weapon. 

Engagement ranges can vary by weapon. Long weapons (a halberd) have longer Reach than short weapons like a dagger. A long-weapon wielder is considered **engaged** from a further distance, and can attack sooner while moving less. Shorter-range weapons have advantages at very close range, especially against someone with a mobile long weapon.
#### Ranged Engagements
When referring to ranged combat, characters are considered to be engaged once one party is aiming or firing a weapon at another, and are engaged until one party is either incapacitated, leaves full line of sight, or both sides terminate hostile actions. Aiming or readying a weapon may constitute an initiation of an engagement, at GM’s discretion.

### So you’ve gone a few rounds…
And maybe the combat was very conclusive. A one-sided victory. Perhaps not, and it was a bloodbath, with both sides limping away. Most TTRPGs involve the former exclusively, when generally most combat historically ends when one side opts to flee. 

Project Apocrypha attempts to support this system via the **Pauses** and **Pushes** system.
### Pauses and Pushes
In some circumstances, combat may not be resolved simply by killing everyone in the room in a few seconds. NPCs and player characters should both wish to avoid death, and will behave as such. There may be some instances (such as in a prolonged firefight, or an engagement within a structure with multiple rooms) where players and NPCs may be aware of each other, but are not actively Engaged.

At the end of each round, Players and NPCs may choose to either *Push* the Combat, and continue it, staying in Initiative-Tracked time, or *Pause* and allow themselves a time to rest, recuperate, treat wounds, or do other actions which would not be possible in combat.

If both sides Pause, a Pause begins until one party or another begins a new Engagement. If either side Pushes, Combat continues.

### Pauses
Pauses allow for actions to take place which wouldn’t make sense in the hectic back-and-forth of combat, where seconds matter. 

Pauses take up a wishy-washy amount of time, but generally somewhere between 5-15 minutes.

# Combat Flow
#### Check Initiative
The first step to any combat is to conduct a an Action Potential check.
> Action Potential Check: CRD + FIT + 2d10

Whichever character has the highest Initiative goes first. In the event of a tie, the character with the highest [[201.03 Skills#OODA|OODA]] goes first.

#### Taking Actions
Once the turn order is determined, the character at the top of the order may begin taking actions, spending Action Potential. 

##### Moving to Contact - Fight!
Generally, for any fight to start, the parties need to be in range of each other. This may be quite long with modern firearms, or quite close quarters with melee weapons.

Movement in Project Apocrypha works differently than other games. Characters have a *movement rate* indicating the various speeds of walking, jogging, running, and so on. Characters enter a *movement rate* and if they wish to move, allow for time to pass. They may sometimes take additional actions while this time passes, if they’re things which can be accomplished by movement.
#### Hitting a Target
To hit a target, a character first takes an offensive action. This in its basic form is a [[#Basic Ranged Attacks|Basic Ranged Attack]] or [[#Basic Melee Attack Actions|Basic Melee Attack]] which targets another character.

All weapons and offensive abilities have a skill associated with them, as well as an attribute. Below are some listed as examples.

| Type          | Skill                | Attribute    |
| ------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
| Unarmed       | Hand to Hand         | Coordination |
| Longsword     | Martial (Melee)      | Coordination |
| Pistol        | Personal Weapons (R) | Dexterity    |
| Assault Rifle | Martial Weapons (R)  | Dexterity    | 

The attacking character makes a roll, considering any from injury, environmental modifiers, or other subsystems. The goal is to overcome a threshold of difficulty representing hitting the target.

Characters *always* get a defense of a sort, unless they are caught totally unawares. This is called *Avoidance Rating* and it acts as the “base” threshold for a test. They may also opt to take a *reaction* to an attack, either rolling their *Avoidance* pool plus any modifiers, or taking another action such as those listed in [[#Reactions|the section on reactions.]] These reactions might include diving out of the way, or trying to parry an attack with their own melee weapon.

In the case of a melee test the attacker rolls their Skill + Attributes + Modifiers, tallying the number of “hits.” The defender may use their flat *Avoidance Rating* or opt to use a reaction, which replaces *Avoidance Rating*. If the attacker wins, the attack hits. The number of hits they won by are called *net hits* and are used in the Damage calculations. If an attacker loses, they do no damage unless the defender took a reaction which specifies otherwise.

Ranged attacks work very similarly, except Ranged attacks often bring in additional environmental factors 
#### Damaging a Target
#### Finish Them?

# Actions and Reactions
## Actions
These choices consist of Action Potential expenditures which *must* take place on the turn of the character using them. They must be used proactively, and can never be used outside of a character’s turn.

### Universal Actions
#### Change Speed
- [ ] Fill in Speed Change rules #pa_tbd 
#### Prepared Attack
Threaten actions threaten an area around a character. With a firearm or ranged weapon, the character spends their normal attack AP ready an attack which will release on a specified trigger. The effect is similar with a melee weapon. This allows them to make whatever attack they want against a target, rather than being required to use a simple attack. A character must have the Action Potential remaining to Ready an attack, but needn't designate a target, or even execute the attack if they choose instead to take other Reactions. If they take a reaction other than their readied attack, the readied attack is canceled.

> [!INFO] Readying and Pauses/Pushes
> For the purposes of Pushes and Pauses, Readied Attacks do not always constitute an engagement. At the GM’s discretion they may deem if the character’s action is defensive, and thus does not constitute continuing combat.

#### Prepared Action
Similar to Prepared Attack, but allowing a player to ready any action instead. As with Ready Attack, characters must have the Action Potential remaining, but don’t need to specify a target, etc.

### Ranged Actions
#### Basic Ranged Attacks

Ranged attacks are made against a Target's Avoidance. These provoke a reaction if the defender is using a Ranged weapon, and also always provoke the reaction to dive out of the way, unless the defender is already on the ground.

##### Aim and Fire
*Aim and Fire* actions indicate the pulling the trigger on a ranged attack with a firearm, or loosing of an attack with a bow. Aim and Fire attacks gain the benefit of the full accuracy of their weapon.

Speed = Weapon ERG + Weapon BULK. ⬆ values are slower.

##### Ready Weapon
This action indicates readying an attack for use, such as bringing a rifle to the shoulder, bringing a pistol up from waist level, or drawing a bowstring. Firearms remain readied once done so unless the user breaks their stance by running or sprinting, or if rapid fire and recoil causes it to break.

Speed = Weapon BULK ⬆ values are slower.

##### Fire from the Hip
This action indicates firing a weapon “intuitively” without aiming, from the hip, or otherwise. The weapon does not gain the advantages of its Accuracy.

Speed = Weapon BULK. ⬆ values are slower.

##### Fire Readied Weapon
This action indicates firing a weapon which has already been Readied. 

Speed = Weapon ERG .⬆ values are slower.

#### Advanced Ranged Attacks
##### Called Shots
- [ ] Redo hit location penalties to fit dice-pools.  #pa_tbd
- I came up with these old numbers for D100.
- They were calculated by roughly figuring how much of an area of someone’s frontal profile they took up. If someone’s torso is 100 square inches, their face is ⅙ the size, so… -60%. 
- This doesn’t work for dicepools, obviously. Hit locations should be a big risk, because they let you target specific locations. Hitting someone’s head/face is a big deal.
###### DEV NOTES - LEFT IN PLACE FOR REFERENCE
These attacks allow for a user to target a specific location on a target’s body. The penalties for these locations are as follows:

Head: -40% (HEAD PROVIDES SOME DAMAGE RESISTANCE FROM THE SKULL)
Face: -60% (NO DAMAGE RESISTANCE)
Arms: -20%
Torso: 0% (Considered to be the “default” and listed here fro reference.)
Legs: -10%

##### Autofire and bursts
###### DEV NOTES
- [ ] Work on autofire #pa_tbd
Autofire creates “recoil dice” based on the recoil value of the weapon. You might think of these as essentially hunger dice, but they never add successes. They can be of varying size, depending on how big/dangerous the weapon is.

Is the GURPs system better? Could set thresholds, then some “areas” for what you get for shooting X amount of rounds?

How does hitting multiple shots work?

##### Precise Aim
- [ ] Create rules for extended aim, adding gradual bonuses #pa_tbd 
	- How do we determine 

#### Basic Melee Attack Actions

Melee attacks provoke a reaction from a the defender, which determines how the result is determined. If a defender can defend themselves, with their own weapon or with their hands, they may roll a test opposed to the Melee attack. The party with the higher Margin of Success wins.

If the defender cannot defend themselves against the roll, the Target is protected by Avoidance.

##### Attack
- [ ] Define rules for melee attacks #pa_tbd 

##### Desperate Swing

#### Advanced Melee Attack Actions

##### Flurry

##### Feint
- Feints are attacks which are designed to trick a defender. Feint attacks are made at a penalty and are not necessarily obvious to the defender as a feint. When successful, feints normal attack, which has limited damage, but increase the difficulty of an opponents counterattack, providing bonus damage. As opposed to the Desperate Parry option in response to a counterattack, Feints allow, in essence, counter-attacking of counter-attacks.
##### Power Attack
- [ ] Write power-attack rules #pa_tbd 
 
### Defensive Actions
Some actions may be taken to pre-empt incoming attacks. Such actions must be taken on a player's turn. Some of these actions must be unlocked.
- [ ] #pa_tbd We should decide which actions are “default” and which get unlocked by 

#### Desperate Defense: 
Sacrifices offensive action for the remainder the character’s pass in order to increase defenses. 
- [ ] Needs filling out #pa_tbd 

#### Riposte: 
Leaves open a venue of attack which can be used to deliver a prepared attack against an enemy. Opposed roll against the enemy’s COG + Combat skill, and if you win, they don’t see it. 
- [ ] Finish riposte rules #pa_tbd 

## Reactions
Reactions are taken off-turn, in response to being targeted by an attack or some other event. Like actions, however, reactions allow for 

### Ranged Reactions
As stated, defenders may not always want to make a reaction against incoming fire, as all reactions have a cost in *Action Potential.* Incoming fire could be very close, or very far away, and if an enemy has a low probability to hit, “risking it” might be worth it. Characters, they can increase their passive Avoidance Rating by increasing their speed, or reducing their exposure. 

Moving to a sprint, or taking cover can both increase a character's Avoidance Rating. These are generally things that must be done on a character's turn, and cannot be done as a reaction. 

#### Charge Defense
When subject to a Charge melee attack, the defender may take a Ranged attack of their choice against the target. The attacker's charge will carry through unless they are stopped outright by the retaliation, and they suffer a dependent on the movement speed of the charging party.

#### Counter-fire
When subject to a Ranged attack by another Ranged attacker, if the Defender can “steal” the beat from the attacker, they may also fire their own attack. The attacks take place simultaneously, with both targets rolling against each other’s Avoidance Rating. They will be subject to a penalty based on the number of incoming rounds unless they succeed on a *Courage* (Resolve + Acuity) at a difficulty set by the Rate of Fire of the incoming shots..

#### Target in the Open
 When a hostile target moves in the open, outside of cover, and not blocked by any obstacles or obstructions, a Ranged weapon user may make an attack against that target at a penalty.

### Melee Reactions
Reactions to Melee attacks are triggered by an incoming melee attack. 

#### Counter-attack
Attempting to turn the tables on their opponent, the counter-attacker defeats the incoming blow and strikes their opponent. Multiple counter-attacks in a single turn suffer a cumulative penalty of WEAPON SIZE. (Or flat?)
**Value Proposition:** Increase in defense difficulty, but the success might provide damage.
#### Parry
Focusing on defense against incoming attack. Successful defense blocks the attack, but defenders who are using a smaller weapon than their attacker must soak Shock damage equal to the size difference. Multiple parries in a single turn suffer a cumulative penalty.
- **Value Prop:** Allows for massive reduction in incoming damage, at a cost. 

#### Exploit Opening
When given the opportunity (such as someone fleeing from an Engagement) the reacting character may make an attack at a penalty which stacks with the other Melee reaction penalties.
#### Desperate Parry
Those who have been counter-attacked may attempt a Desperate Parry, involving one more roll at double difficulty to defend against the counter. A failure inflicts Shock damage as per a parry, as well as the damage that would be suffered from the Counterattack.

### Universal Reactions
Universal reactions may be used in any situation when a defender is aware of the incoming attack.

#### Desperate Dodge
The character dives out of the way of an incoming attack, ending up prone up to base movement meters away. They roll to dodge the targeted attack, but must deal with the consequences of being prone. This ability allows Ranged Attacks with firearms to be dodged actively, as opposed to depending on Avoidance Rating.

#### Damage Soak
Rather than attempt to get out of the way, a player attempts to take the hit straight on their armor, allowing them to potentially change the hit location to one which is more favorable. As long as they are aware of the incoming attack, they may choose to forgo the protection from a Dodge or Avoidance Rating, and instead may shift the Hit Location from either their Torso/Head to their arms or legs. 

- [ ] Convert some amount to shock damage?
## The Flow of Combat (Initiative, AP, and Movement)

### Initiative and Action Potential

Action Potential indicates the time events take place. Higher Action Potential is almost always better. Action Potential is determined by rolling 2d10, and adding it to the player's Initiative Rating, calculated by taking ACU/10 + VOL/10 + 3 and adding situational modifiers.

Players may take actions, spending Action Potential until they are interrupted by the next highest person in the order. Players can always take at LEAST their Initiative Rating worth of actions before being interrupted. As long as the action *starts* within this range, the player may complete the action without interruption.

### Movement
All entities do not *expend* action potential to move. Rather, they expend action potential to change speeds, and then proceed at that speed as they take other actions (if desired). Changing a level of movement rate (from walking -> running, or running -> sprinting) always costs 2 Action Potential. 

Characters' total movement is dictated by their CRD/10 (minimum 2). They will move that number of meters per ticks of Action Potential spent *walking*. 

Running doubles this speed, and sprinting triples it. 

This means that for an average, unathletic person (15-20 CRD) they will walk 2m/s, run 4m/s, and sprint at 6m/s.

Professional athletes might(30-40 CRD) can achieve speeds significantly greater, walking at 3-4m/s, running at 6-8 m/s, and sprinting at 10-12 m/s, with the top end signifying the limits of human achievement.

### Stances
In some circumstances, players may be knocked Prone, or choose to adopt a prone, or crouched/sitting position. These stances provide some benefits (like maximizing cover) or increasing shooting stability. They also provide some downsides such as reduced ability to dodge, fight in melee, and so on. 

In addition to these, Stances also modify movement speeds. A Prone character moves at 1/4 their base Movement (CRD/10) per AP spent moving. Crouching characters move at 1/2 base movement (CRD/10).



# Edge Cases
## Ambushes
