---
tags: Project_Apocrypha
---
```dataview  
TABLE WITHOUT ID file.mtime AS "Last Modified"  
WHERE file.path = this.file.path  
```
# Injury
## Targets of Damage
There are two primary categories for targets of damage - the Vitality pool (or Torso, for most normal characters) and extremities. Extremities are harder to hit, but allow for degrading of a target’s capabilities far more quickly and easily than targeting their Vitality pool alone. Vitality is easier to attack directly, but the pool is larger.

## Tenacity Tests
Often, characters are going to have to fight through pain or injury to continue, as heroes do. This is called a *Tenacity* test, and it always begins with 

## Vitality Pool - Default Hit Location
Vitality is the overall measure of a character’s health. In practice, this often means the ability of their nervous system to continue the control of their body. When a character is reduced to 0 vitality, they are typically incapacitated, and begin to bleed to death or their body otherwise begins to fail. 

Whenever the Vitality Pool is reduced below 0, characters must pass a *Tenacity* D4 (Tenacity = FIT + RES, Difficulty Threshold 4) test to allows them to continue taking actions, but they will begin to suffer [[#Hemorrhage]] damage.

If a character is reduced to -100% of their vitality pool, they must make a *Tenacity* D8 test to continue fighting.

If a character is reduced to -200% of their vitality pool, they they lose consciousness and cannot take any further actions. No save is allowed.


Any character who reaches -300% of their vitality pool is dead.

A character at -500% vitality is considered to have been destroyed so thoroughly that they are vaporized, and there is no evidence of their body.

## Extremities
In addition to the Vitality pool, the ‘health’ of some extremities are tracked. Some extremities are *vital* and behave differently. In normal humans and similar creatures, the limbs are extremities, Head as a vitals.
## States of Extremities/Vitals
Limbs can be Disabled, Maimed, or Destroyed. These states exist at 0, -50%, and -100%.

### Effects of States on Extremities
- Disabled limbs force a *Tenacity* D2 test to remain conscious, and force a -4 dice-pool penalty to any roll using that limb. All other actions suffer a -2 dice-pool penalty from pain.
- Maimed limbs force a *Tenacity* D4 test to remain conscious, and force a -6 dice-pool penalty to any action using a limb. Entering this state may create injuries which are permanent to the character. All other actions are at -4 dice-pool penalty from the pain. 
- Destroyed limbs force a *Tenacity* D8 test to remain conscious, and are considered violently amputated, removed or otherwise destroyed. No actions may be taken which require this limb. All actions are at a -10 dice-pool penalty from the pain.

### Effects of States on Vitals
- Vital locations are considered to be used in all actions for the purposes of calculating injury penalties. For humans and other similar creatures, the *Head* is the vital location.
- When a vital location is disabled, the character must make a *Tenacity* D4 test to not immediately be incapacitated. All actions are at a D4 penalty. 
- When a vital location is maimed, the character is knocked out, and must make a *Tenacity* D4 test to survive. 
- A destroyed vital location is immediately lethal.
## Hemorrhage
>[!INFO]- Note for GMs - When to use these rules?
> These rules add some depth to characters or NPCs who are fighting for their lives. Generally speaking, when “mook” or “goon” characters have a limb destroyed or their VP reduced below 0, they should lose consciousness or be outright killed. Only use these rules for ‘important’ NPCs and player characters.

A character who has their Vitality Pool reduced to the negatives, or who has an extremity *destroyed* starts to **Hemorrhage**. This effect is resolved in two ways:

### If triggered by an extremity being destroyed:
At the end of the turn, the vitality (which must be a negative value, by definition) of the extremity is applied as damage (ignoring DR) to all other extremities with a **positive** vitality, as well as the **Vitality Pool**. If this damage reduces an extremity below 0, consider it disabled, but do not damage it further with **Hemorrhage** next turn.
- [ ] add an example for extremity hemorrhage #pa_tbd 

### If triggered by the Vitality Pool:
At the end of the turn, the vitality (which must be a negative value, by definition) of the Vitality Pool is applied as damage (ignoring DR) to all other extremities. Once again, if this damage reduces an extremity below 0, consider it disabled, but do not damage it further with **Hemorrhage** next turn. Each time that damage *cannot* be applied to an extremity because it’s in the negatives, decrease the VP suffers an additional 1 damage which ignores DR.
- [ ] add an example for VP hemmorhage #pa_tbd 

>[!NOTE]- Why can’t extremities hemorrhage below 0?
> Bleeding out can’t cause limbs to suffer even more damage, from a logical standpoint. Thus,  bleed-out cannot reduce them below 0, and thus, Maimed or Destroyed

### Hemorrhage when not in Combat Time
In the event that there is a [[201.05 Combat#Pauses|Pause]] apply hemorrhage damage at the **end** of the pause. This might be because Combat has totally ended, or because combat has resumed with a [[201.05 Combat#Pauses and Pushes|Push]]. This means that treating a wound which is hemorrhaging 

In the event that combat has ceased, and thus “turns” cannot be used as a measure of time, consider that **Hemorrhage** damage is inflicted every 15 minutes, as with a lack of effort and exertion, the bleed-out penalty is lessened. 

If a character is incapacitated, further **Hemorrhage** damage is inflicted every half hour. When this happens, any extremities which are at 0 VP or below gain the *Maimed* status effect.

### Stopping the Bleed (or Hemorrhage!)
- [ ] Interacts with the First Aid skill, character can attempt this over several combat turns, or have a high chance of success during a Pause #pa_tbd 

# Types of Damage
### Physical
Damage which damages the concrete form of an entity, such as bullets, knives, batons, and fists.
#### Impact
Impact damage inflicts full damage to limbs for the purpose of calculating wounds or incapacitation, but never inflicts hemorrhaging. 
#### Piercing
Piercing damage inflicts 1/2 damage for the purposes of crippling injuries (to limbs, and so on) but inflicts normal damage to the Vitality Pool.
#### Fragmenting
Fragmenting ammunition inflicts full damage to limbs, and full damage to the target’s vitality pool. Fragmenting damage suffers from double the normal damage reduction from Armor and other resistances.
#### Crushing
Crushing damage inflicts full damage to both crippling limbs and to the Vitality Pool.
### Magical and Other
#### Elemental
Certain abilities may create effects such as “burning” “acidic" or “freezing” which modify status effects and damage delivered to the target. These all borrow the damage profile of either Impact, Piercing, or Crushing damage in terms of Health/Limb damage, and add additional effects.
#### Magical / Bane
Some abilities (including the ones above) may bypass the immunities or resistances of certain creatures by nature of their damage type. As an example, Vampires’ natural resistance to Physical damage will not protect them from damage from magically poisoned blood.

### Stress Damage
Damage which targets the mental state of a target. This may come from *Stress* sources like violence, isolation, or being confronted by the unnatural or unknowable. Some abilities may also inflict Stress sources on a target, using psychic or psionic attacks.

Stress is the system by which non-tangible damage or degradation in capabilities are represented in Project Apocrypha. Stress can come from checks imposed from the GM from horrific or traumatizing experiences, or from Pushing a roll.

Stress damage *may* be received in combat, but it isn’t always. Detailed rules for Stress are detailed in [[201.07 Stress and Morality]]
#### Stress vs Damage
Stress is described with a term which corresponds to the attribute group. For example, *Violence* is the Stress Damage source for the Might attribute group. It doesn’t inflict damage to the player’s *Vitality Pool* or *extremities* like normal damage, but rather damages their attributes temporarily. Any actions which require rolling an attribute from that Attribute group are at a penalty equal to the Stress damage.

Stress damage cannot be healed like normal Vitality damage, and always requires in-character effort to resolve.

#### Pushing a Roll
When pushing a roll, the 1’s which result inflict damage to the attribute group’s ‘health’ bar. Note, this damage may *never* be reduced by Stress Resistance.

# Resistances
## Types of Resistances
### Damage Resistance (DR)
This type of damage resistance is provided by protection from clothing, thick hide, or other equipment. 

DR reduces forms of incoming damage *after* damage dice has been rolled. 1 DR is generally going to be stronger than 1 Damage.

### Warding Resistance (WR)
Provides resistance from magic, or supernatural sources. 

### Stress Resistance (SR)
Provides additional protection against Stress damage. This should be warding against a particular kind of stress resistance.