---
tags: Project_Apocrypha
---
```dataview  
TABLE WITHOUT ID file.mtime AS "Last Modified"  
WHERE file.path = this.file.path  
```
# META
## What does this section need?
- Proofreading?
- Some additional thought put in to where we could use Complication dice
# Resolving Conflicts

## Basic Dice-rolls
At its core, a dice-roll in Project Apocrypha’s system is constructed of a variety of dice of varying sizes, starting with a D6 as the default, but also sometimes involving D4s, D8s, D10s, and D12s. Each die (and type of die) has different thresholds for a “hit”, which is compared against the difficulty of the task. If more “hits” are scored than the threshold, the test is successful.
	
| Die  | 1 Hit | 2 Hits | 3 Hits | Hits on Average | Usage                  |
| ---- | ----- | ------ | ------ | --------------- | ---------------------- |
| 1d4  | 4     | -      | -      | .25             | Defaulting/penalty             |
| 1d6  | 5-6   | -      | -      | .33             | Typical die            |
| 1d8  | 6-7   | 8      | -      | .5              | Mid-tier upgrade       |
| 1d10 | 6-8   | 9,10   | -      | .70             | High-tier upgrade      |
| 1d12 | 6-9   | 10-11  | 12     | ??              | Legendary Tier upgrade |

## A note on Dice Types
Generally speaking, D4s and D6s are the dice used in this system. Other subsystems (gear, enchantments, special abilities) may at times change some of these dice in to others, but generally speaking these are the bread and butter.

D6s are the default dice for all attributes, skills, and bonuses. In some cases, a GM may wish to penalize players to a *lesser* degree than simply removing dice from the pool, so D4s may be appropriate. 

- D8s typically will represent upgraded equipment which is possible with specialized technology or minor magic.

- D10s will represent major magical items or similar help.

- D12s will represent artifacts or relics which are world renowned.

## Complication Die

Complication die may sometimes be added instead of other penalties. Systems like recoil, and certain magical systems may interact with this instead of simply difficulty thresholds or penalties.

| Difficulty Die | No Result | -1 Hit | -2 Hits | - 3 Hits | Avg Lost Hits |
| -------------- | --------- | ------ | ------- | -------- | ------------- |
| 1d4            | 1-2       | 3-4    | ---     | ---      | .5            |
| 1d6            | 1-3       | 4-5    | 6       | ---      | .666          |
| 1d8            | 1-4       | 5-6    | 7-8     | ---      | .75           |
| 1d10           | 1-5       | 6-7    | 8-9     | 10       | .9            |
| 1d12           | 1-6       | 6-8    | 9-10    | 11-12    | 1.08          | 

> [!INFO]- DEV NOTE - Complication Dice
> These are a tool in the toolbox for system creators. - not necessarily one the GM should whip out all the time

## A Note on Test Notation
In documents, tests will generally be described as a ‘D(X) Test Name’ test. The Test name is an easy to remember key-word which tells what attributes to use, and D(X) indicates the Difficulty Threshold in hits. 

> [!INFO]- Text Example
> Gasket has received a rather firm bonk on his un-armored head with a baton, and his *head* has been disabled. He must make a Tenacity D(4) Test to not be incapacitated.
> 
> Tenacity is Resolve + Fitness. Gasket rolls this pool, and hopes he’ll be able to continue the fight.

## Opposed Tests
Opposed tests are those where two active parties can each roll to determine the outcome. Typically this will be an *action* by one party, and a *reaction* or *response* by another. 

In these cases, both parties roll a dice-pool either as improvised by the GM, or as defined by a gameplay system. Whoever has the greatest number of net hits wins.

In most opposed situations which are not governed by a gameplay system, the GM should pick a difficulty threshold for what the character is trying to achieve, and roll both the *action* and *response* in each character’s relevant dice-pools. The *response* adds their hits to the difficulty decided by the GM. The *action* must overcome this threshold to be successful. This means that *ties* are in the favor of the *response*.

> [!INFO]- Example of An Opposed Test
> Gasket wants to convince Trident to help him rob a drug dealer so he can get high. This goes against Trident’s morals, so he’s not inclined to do so. Gasket wants to convince him.
> 
> Gasket rolls his dice-pool to convince: Manipulation (3) + Persuasion (3). He rolls well, and gets 4 hits.
> 
> The GM decides that the difficulty for this is 4, based on how much this goes against Trident’s desires. 
> 
> Trident rolls his dice-pool to react: Empathy (4) + Intuition (3). He rolls poorly, and gets only one hit. 
> 
> Trident’s 1 hit is added to the GM-set threshold of 4, for 5. Gasket only rolls 4 hits, and does not beat the threshold of 5, so unfortunately for him, he’s gonna have to get that cram by himself.

## Non-opposed Tests
In the case of non-opposed rolls which are not governed by a gameplay system, the GM simply picks a difficulty and the character rolls the appropriate dice-pool. If they have net hits, they succeed to the degree determined by the GM.

## Extended Tests
Extended rolls are often employed for tasks which may take a long time, and whose success or failure is more due to continual effort or focus rather than a single moment’s success or failure.

In these cases, the GM picks a difficulty (or several, for variable outcomes) for the extended test, an interval, and a duration. Each Interval that passes, the player makes a roll which contributes to the success or failure of the roll. This roll may have a GM-set threshold for difficulty if what the character is doing is in especially difficult circumstances.

The net hits are calculated for each roll and added to a total. When the accumulated hits surpasses the set difficulty, the player has succeeded. If the duration expires without such an event, the Extended test has failed.

## Difficulties and Modifiers
### Difficulties
Difficulties are related to the difficulty of the task the character is attempting to achieve in the context of the circumstances they intend to achieve it. This is often called a *difficulty threshold.* The D(X) notation may be used in other places to indicate a difficulty threshold for a test in this reference.


#### Difficulty Examples
- Convincing a person of to do something using an excuse has a neutral probability of truth, with no real stakes. (1 hit)
- Convincing to do something which seems highly suspicious and against their interests but whose explanation technically not impossible. (5 hits) 
- Convincing someone of something which is obviously, plainly wrong, will likely bring them direct personal harm, directly contradicts what their senses are telling them. (10 hits)

### Modifiers
Modifiers, expressed as penalties or bonuses, are used when a character’s approach or personal condition (injury, fatigue, etc) may either help, or harm an attempt to achieve a task. These should be tied to the player, not to the circumstances of the roll themselves.

#### Modifier Usage Examples:
- Usage of tools, equipment, or abilities
- Having a positive/negative existing relation with a character when undergoing persuasion attempts
- Wound penalties

### Modifier or Difficulty Numerical Examples
-10: Heroic
-8: Near Impossible
-6: Very Hard
-4: Hard
-3: Difficult
-2: Trying
-1: Annoying
0: Neutral circumstances
+1: Familiar
+2: Practiced Ease
+3: Easy
+4: Trivial
+5: Natural

### When Modifiers Apply
#### Defined Environment Penalties
In highly-defined environments, such as ranged or melee combat, there are specific rules for difficulty thresholds, bonuses, and penalties. These may include adding *challenge dice* of some sort to the dice-pool, such as *recoil dice* for ranged combat.

#### Free Environment Penalties
In less-defined environments, sometimes the GM will need to make a gut call on how easy or difficult something should be to succeed at. In these cases, flat modifiers to the number of dice rolled are used. Basic D6s are always removed first, following up the chain. *Complication* dice are always removed last.

## “Pushing” a Roll
### Focus 
At times, a character or player may decide that they wish to attempt to devote extra effort to an important roll. To do so, players spend a point of Focus and re-roll any dice which didn’t come up as hits **after** rolling.

Any dice which land on a 1 after the re-reroll indicate a point of **stress** which corresponds to the attribute group being used for the roll. See the section in [[201.06 Damage and Resistances |Stress]] for information on on how exactly this mechanic works. 