---
tags: Project_Apocrypha
---
```dataview  
TABLE WITHOUT ID file.mtime AS "Last Modified"  
WHERE file.path = this.file.path  
```
# META
## What does this section actually need?
- [ ] Theorycrafting on the movement rules to make sure they don’t create sound-barrier shattering centaurs.
- [ ] Recoil management derived attribute balancing
- [x] Attribute descriptions (rough) ✅ 2022-09-13
- [ ] Investigate a “Perk” system for attributes, which adds an ability or trait between Attribute levels instead of adding a die to the pool. 
# All the Attributes
Unless otherwise specified, attributes always add to the dice-pool in any attribute or skill test that involves that attribute, 1:1.
## Might
#### Power
A measure of a person’s physical strength, power, and explosive fitness. Strength influences things like lifting heavy objects, jumping long distances, melee damage, and so on.
#### Fitness
Endurance, ability to absorb damage, ability to do things over a long period of time.
## Grace
#### Coordination
Gross motor skills that require deftness - diving, dodging, gymnastics, agility. 
#### Dexterity
Fine motor skills that require precision - firing a gun, picking a lock, carving or crafting.
## Nature
#### Empathy
Sensing emotions in others, to lead, to convince of things that one genuinely believes, to connect with others on an emotional level.
#### Manipulation
Bending others to your will via lies, deceit, or otherwise getting them to believe or act upon something that you yourself do not.
## Mind
#### Cognition
Abstract reasoning, being able to acquire and process new information using thought, reason, experience, and the senses.
#### Acuity
Sharpness of mind, quickness of reaction. Being able to process new information quickly and make intuitive decisions about it without engaging abstract thought.
## Will
#### Volition
The power of using one’s will actively, to force oneself to actively take difficult or dangerous action, to enforce one’s vision of the world on to that world. Also, to summon or control offensively things which are intangible
#### Resolve
The strength of the sense of self, to weather any storm, determination in oneself, one’s sense of being, one’s perception of events, and one’s confidence in themselves.

# DRAFT On the Attribute Scale
For normal folks, attribute dice-pools are capped at 5. Some supernatural creatures or other enhanced people may go up to 10, or occasionally in to the low teens if exceptionally powerful. Mundane characters can purchase 

> [!INFO]- Alternates to Attribute flat dicepools
> In some applications, GMs may choose to allow the *value* of the attribute to be decoupled from the number of dice. 
> 
> For example, in a campaign with a hard-lock at Attribute values of 5 for mundane people, the GM may elect to allow a character to buy Attribute 6, but rather than adding another die, this would upgrade one of their attribute dice to a D8 from a D6.

## Some Idea of Scale
| Value | Description                                          |     |
| ----- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| 0     | Nonfunctional, crippled. No skill tests may be made. |     |
| 1     | Subpar                                               |     |
| 2     | Average                                              |     |
| 3     | Proficient                                           |     |
| 4     | Born natural                                         |     |
| 5     | Local best                                           |     |
| ???   | Throw Dan at This                                                     |     |
# Derived Attributes
### RECOIL MANAGEMENT - FIT + CRD + SKILL FEATS?
> [!INFO]- DEV NOTE - RECOIL MANAGEMENT
> - [ ] Need to determine how recoil compworks #pa_tbd 
> - Ideally, you have a passive recoil reduction stat. A weapon firing in a certain firemode at a certain speed is going to cause X amount of recoil, so there isn’t a ton of math needed.
> - Recoil adds complication dice to the pool. See
### FOCUS (Willpower replacement) - Highest Mind + Highest Will
Must spend to use the “push the limit” action, which can cause stress damage/accumulating penalties if abused.

> [!INFO]- DEV NOTE - Focus’ other uses 
> Focus also can be spent to break out of certain mind control abilities, and so on. Damage is generally not done directly to Focus (as willpower damage in games like VTM is bullshit)
### MOVEMENT (per tick)
MOV = FIT + CRD + POW / 3 (Rounding Up)
Walking = 1/tick
March/Tactical = MOV grids
Running = MOV x 2
Sprinting = MOV x 2 + (Athletics test, net successes / 2 = meters added)

2/2/2 average human has:
March/Tactical of 2m/tick
Run of 4m/tick
Sprint of 4m + 1-2.

### AVOIDANCE RATING 
> [!INFO]- DEV NOTE - Avoidance Rating
> - [ ] Avoidance rating needs definitions #pa_tbd 
> - Design intent is to create a way that “dodges” can work without creating loads of rolls
> - Sets a base difficulty threshold for hitting a target

ACUITY + COORDINATION / 3 = Avoidance Rating.

### INITIATIVE
#### OODA:
VOL + ACUITY + 5

**Observe, Orient, Decide, Act**: an abstract measure of a character’s cognitive ability to perceive rapidly changing information in a stressful situation, and act on it. 

It is initially calculated by taking a character’s Volition + Acuity, and adding 5. Characters may increase the guiding attributes to increase this score, or purchase Qualities (positive or negative) which influence this. 

#### Action Potential:
CRD + FIT + 2d10
**Action Potential**: A score which indicates how much quickly a character can move, and how much they can accomplish in a given turn. Action potential starts for all characters at CRD + FIT + 2d10, and may be modified in the future with abilities or qualities in some settings.

For normal humans, it is unusual to have an action potential higher dice pool higher than 2d10.

#### Putting it together:
At the start of a combat, initiative is calculated by rolling the Action Potential dice-pool, and then adding the result to OODA. The character with the highest value goes first, subtracting the cost of their actions as they go. 

When that character has taken at least their OODA value worth of actions, the next highest value character gets to take actions. If the character who acted first is still the highest, they continue taking actions until someone else has a higher Initiative than they do.

Tldr; like Shadow-run, but without fixed 10-initiative pass turns, and characters can ‘steal’
### VITALITY POOL
The vitality pool is 10 + 2x FIT + POW + RES. 
*ex.* 

At FIT 2, POW 2, RES 2 = 10 + 4 + 2 + 2 = 20.

#### Hit Locations and Vitality
| Head   | Torso | L-Arm  | R-Arm  | L-Leg  | R-Leg  |
| ------ | ----- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| 1/3 VP | VP    | 1/3 VP | 1/3 VP | 1/2 VP | 1/2 VP |

#### An example spread with a VP of 20:
| Head | Torso | L-Arm | R-Arm | L-Leg | R-Leg | VP  |
| ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | --- |
| 7    | VP    | 7     | 7     | 10    | 10    | 20  |